
An Account of what happen'd to a Boy at Malmoe in Schonen in the year 1678. supposed to be done by Witchcraft, and attested by the ablest, and most Judicious Men of that Town.

Having in the Preface to the foregoing Nar∣rative taken notice of the Swedish Envoy Extraordinary, it may not be unsuitable to the Subject, these Papers treat of, to give the World an Account of a very strange Passage, which the said Envoy hath taken very great pains to satisfie himself in; and of which he hath the publick Testimony of the Town, where it was done, by him. No longer ago than in the year 1678. an Alderman or Senator's Son of Malmoe in Schonen, a City belonging to the King of Sweden, the Boy being then about Thirteen years of age, his Name Abraham Mechelburg, going to School one Morning, as the custom is in that place about Six of the Clock, stay'd there till Eight, and then went home for his Breakfast, which when he had eaten, he was going back to School again, when just before the Door close by the lowermost Step, there lay a little Bundle of Linen Rags, which the Lad out of curiosity took up and open'd, but found nothing in it, but partly Pins, some crooked, some laid across, some without points, partly broken Horse-nails, and Nails without heads, part∣ly Horse-hair, and such trash, which when it an∣swered not his expectation, he rent asunder, and threw away.

Some few days after, the Boy fell ill, and con∣tinued so for some time, no Physician being able to guess what ailed him. At last he began to void little Stones, at the Orifice of the Penis, which by degrees came forth bigger and bigger, some were perfect Pebles of all sorts of colours, and in process of time, there came forth great uneven Stones like pieces of Rocks, as if they were broken off of a greater Stone, whereof the Envoy hath two by him, One given him by the Father of the Boy; and the other by the Kings Chirurgeon, both which I have thought fit to give the Reader the dimensions of.

Before the Stones came forth, there was a strange motion in his Belly, as if something were alive in it, the Stones seemed to crack within, and something they heard, as if a great Stone were violently broken, and at this time he felt the greatest pain. When the Stones were ready to come forth, the Penis was drawn in so deep, that the Standers by could not perceive any thing of it; and after that, it dropt those prodi∣gious Stones, which seem rather to be fetch'd from Quarries, than produced by any Saline or Nitrous Matter in the Body. The Stone I have given the Figure of, is of a reddish colour, with some grains of white in it, heavy, and such as lie in common Roads and Highways. When the Stones came forth, the Boy felt no pain, the pain being most upon him, when the Stones within seem'd to crack, and a little before; and the Fit was then so violent, that four or five Men were forced to hold him. The Boy in the mean while slept well at Night, eat, and drank as heartily as ever, discomposed at no time, but when the Fit of voiding these Stones was coming upon him. This lasted two years: The Parents had the Boy pray'd for at Church, and instantly besought God at home, whenever any of those Fits came upon him, to turn the Stream and to stop the Devils Power. The Boy is now as well as ever, rides abroad, and doth all things as he used to do before this accident befel him. The Envoy spoke both with the Father and the Boy, and tells me, they are no indigent People, but well to pass, and Persons of very good Reputation in the Town of Malmoe. While this misfortune lasted, the King of Sueden being then but a little way off, sent some of his Chirurgeons to the place, to know the truth thereof, who were by, when the Lad voided very strange Stones at the Orifice of the Penis, and gave the King an account of it: One of them to be throughly satisfied, held his hand under the Penis after it was drawn in, and there dropt a very odd Stone, broad and angular into his hand. The Envoy being upon the place last year, enquired of all People, whom he thought might not be very credulous, who unanimously bore witness of the thing; and upon his request gave him the following Account, which I have translated out of the Original. - A. H.

BE it known, that during the Years, 1678. and 1679. a very wonderful thing happened in this City of Malmoe, to one of the Aldermen of the Town, his name John Mechelburg, and his Wife's Abla Kruthmeyer; for God having blessed them with three Sons, one of them Abraham by name, a Boy at this time aged about sixteen years, hath been very strangely afflicted with a praeternatu∣ral voiding of Stones, insomuch that during the space of those two years, he hath through the Virga of the Penis voided several hundreds of Stones great and small, which being weighed together, weighed no less than One and twenty pound, Aver∣du-poise some weighing 6, some 7. some 8. some 9 ounces, full of Angles, and much like pieces of a Rock that's broken by force, or instruments fit for that purpose. These broken Stones sometimes came forth at the Boys mouth, sometimes he voided them by siege, and the Parents of the Child have confi∣dently assured, us that before this misfortune, the Boy had been sick several weeks together, and kept his Bed; during which sickness something was seen moving in his Body, as if it had been some live thing. After this Sickness there appeared the Stones aforesaid; The first that came forth, exceeded not the bigness of half a Pea, but in a short time af∣ter, they increased to a greater bulk; when they were ready to come away, the Boy complained much of the Spine of his Back, where, as he said, he found incredible pain. While this lasted, he neither made Water, nor went to Stool sometimes in two Months, sometimes not in a quarter of a year; sometimes the Stones, when they were past through the Virga appeared bloudy, and upon one of them there appeared a kind of Talch. Notwith∣standing all this misery, the Boy continued to eat his Meat very heartily, nor was he troubled with this pain at all in the night, but slept quietly, as he used to do. About the latter end of this unexampled passion and misery, a matter of 64 Stones, for the most part small, came forth very fast one upon the neck of another, and since the 20th of September 1679. this misfortune hath totally left him, and he is as well as ever; nor is there after all those Tor∣ments any defect to be found, or perceived either in his body, or the aforesaid Member of the Boy, but he continues safe and sound unto this day.

And whereas in all probability, abundance of Men, because they have not been Eye-witnesses, will deride these passages, as fabulous, we whose names are under∣written, upon the request and desire of the Lord John Leyonberg, Envoy Extraordinary of Sueden, have once more spoken and conferred with the Pa∣rents of the Boy, who have shewed us the abovesaid Stones, and given us one of the biggest, as a Present, and do hereby testifie that the passages related in the premises, are undoubtedly true, which Testimony we have also signed with our own hands, that in case the aforesaid Envoy coming into foreign parts, shall have occasion to speak of these things, Men may give credit to his Relation.